- Hello, Vogue.
I'm Anya Taylor-Joy, and this
is my life in looks so far.
[chill jazzy music]
I'm curious, I wanna know.
I'm like, "What do you have in here?"
Oh my God!
So this is Thomasin in "The Witch."
This was my first real film role.
I loved that costume so much.
It's a soft corset,
which if you're getting into corsetry,
was a very good way to go.
And what you can't see underneath this
is that I have one long hair ribbon
that's tying all of my hair together.
And I fell so in love with this character,
and I didn't realize that
characters were real for me
because this was my first job.
So when the job finished,
I was really mourning her,
and I kept her hair ribbons
in my bag for a whole year.
And then we did re-shoots,
and they were like, "Ah, we
don't have the hair ribbon."
And I was like, "I got it."
This is the first time that
I went to the Met Gala.
That is the only time that
I've been to the Met Gala.
I've always been working
when it's happening.
I loved this dress so
much, it was so heavy.
I was really freaked out
because I didn't know anybody.
And I think that
situation in and of itself
is very like, "Ah!"
But the dress made me feel great.
And I don't know if you can see,
but I'm wearing a necklace
that has like a bunch of
little baby heads all over it.
And that was my favorite part.
But at the end of the night, I got to,
I was at the top of the stairs
and was kind of just trying
to like honestly figure out
how I was going to get home.
I hadn't thought that far ahead,
and I was like, "Ah, this
is gonna be madness."
And Hailee Steinfeld walked past me,
and she had all of these like long trains,
and they enveloped me and
almost toppled me to my death.
But then Jimmy Fallon saved me.
So that's a very normal story, I think.
Yeah!
Oh, these make me so happy.
This is Johnny Flynn and myself,
shot by Autumn de Wilde
for our movie, "Emma."
Look at my shoes!
So like the best thing
about all of these costumes
is they were made on my body
from like hours and hours of fittings.
And Alexandra Byrne, our costume designer,
who like I want to be when
I grow up, she's so cool,
we got to spend so much time together.
And it felt like such an
integral part of the character.
And the thing with Emma is
she's always performing.
Her wardrobe is very performative.
And so each one of the
looks was like a true look,
from the earrings, to the necklace,
to the shoes, to the reticule.
That's a fun word, reticule.
Yeah, it was great.
I forgot that, yeah.
I was nominated for a
Golden Globe for this.
It was a weird time
because my whole experience of award shows
all took place over Zoom.
And I got nominated
for "Emma" and "Queen's Gambit," I think.
And it was just so surreal and exciting
and, yeah, really thrilling.
2020 was a big, yeah, here we go.
Baby Beth, "Queen's Gambit."
She is about to get her first period.
It's a big day for her.
This was really fun
because I got to spend so
much time with this character
that I loved so much,
and I got to play her
through so many different
eras of her life.
And I remember having like a real fondness
for her at this age.
She kind of walks a little dumpy,
she's like a bit unsure of herself.
I had never played chess,
and it was crazy because
we showed up my first day,
and they gave me like this
bible of all the chess moves
that we were going to do in the show,
all of the chess games,
and they were all based
off of historical games.
And I like went home,
I was a good student, I
learned a bunch of them.
Our first day was the
Mexico tournament series,
and they changed a move,
and I was like, "No, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no.
"This is how this is gonna work.
"You're gonna show me the
moves five minutes beforehand,
"I'm gonna execute it, and
then I'm gonna bin that
"and throw another one in."
And it worked.
I love her final white queen look
because I think that's when
she was feeling herself.
She was like, "Yeah, I'm okay."
[Anya laughs]
There are so many of the shoes
that I actually really enjoyed.
I really love a kitten heel.
I got to keep a bunch.
Another wonderful costume
designer, Gabriele Binder,
she was so tender towards me
because all of my characters
are important to me,
but Beth was somebody
that I knew from the second I read her,
and I was like, "Oh, okay, this is..."
She was the first character
that I had to give a lot of myself to
in order to be able to make her real.
And Gabriele was very cognizant of that
and really tried all of the clothes on me.
And if my body rejected it,
we would take them away.
So at the end of the show,
she said, "This is your
wardrobe, so you can keep it."
The coolest thing about "Queen's Gambit"
was I'd gone back to work,
I was working on "The
Northman" at the time,
and the only reason that I
realized it was doing well
was because members of the
crew would come up to me
and be like, "Hey, I saw your show.
"You were really great in it."
And I was like, "Okay."
And then it was just more
and more and more people.
So it was a gentle experience,
I would say, until it wasn't.
[Anya laughs]
Okay.
Ah, I love this dress so much!
This is Dior at the Emmy's.
This was a crazy time in my life.
I was shooting "The Menu,"
doing awardsy stuff for "Queen's Gambit,"
and promoting "Last Night in
Soho" all at the same time.
And I think we were on
night shoots for "The Menu."
So it was really like a...
[Anya drum rolls]
I had a dream about this dress,
and I wrote to Maria Grazia,
and I was like, "I've just had this image,
"and I really, you know,
"would love it if it could come true."
And she made it come true.
I felt so good in this.
The back was really, really low.
I can't remember what movie
the reference was from,
but I was wearing Tiffany
diamonds on the back.
And I felt good.
2021, another, ah, I love a cape.
I love these silhouettes.
Look at the shoe.
This is also Dior.
This was Golden Globes.
Again, it was still COVID,
so there was no award ceremony in person.
It was all on a computer.
And my friends had flown over
and asked me how I wanted to celebrate.
And I said I really
wanted vegan fried chicken
and I wanted to have a sleepover.
And then I won,
and then we did that and it was great.
Okay.
This is Sandie wearing similar boots
from "Last Night in Soho."
This was very late at night.
We basically became nocturnal for months,
and it was hilarious because
we were shooting in real Soho,
and I would see my friends
that were out partying,
and they were like, "Why
do you look like that?"
And I was like, "I am working."
[Anya laughs]
I knew she sang, but I think
I was a bit anxious about it,
and the way that I deal with my anxiety
is by putting it off,
which is like probably not the
intelligent way of doing it.
And so it just came to the day,
and I was like, "Ah, okay,
I'm gonna do my best."
The dancing, we did have rehearsals,
and that was so much fun.
Like me and Matt Smith dancing together
for hours on end, it was fab.
2022.
What year are we in now?
This is "The Menu" premiere.
I'm wearing Alexander McQueen.
"The Menu" is a satirical horror movie
in which a group of guests
arrive at a Michelin star restaurant
where the chef has other ideas
about what is on the menu that evening.
Did that make any sense?
[Anya laughs]
Okay.
2024, I am wearing Dior
at the "Dune: Part Two"
premiere in London.
It was the hardest secret I
think I've ever had to keep.
But I'll really, you know, give
props to Denis on this one.
He is the most wonderful human
being and talented creator,
and he had so much faith and hope
that we were gonna keep
this secret for the fans
that it just really made
you wanna go, "Shh."
So I told my mom and I told my husband.
That was it.
It was just so exciting.
All the cast were so kind to me.
It was fabulous.
What a great way to be like,
"Welcome to the family."
I'm like dressed like an egg.
Like, "Hi, how's it going?"
[Anya laughs]
Hee-hee!
This is the "Furiosa" premiere
in Australia, in Sydney.
This is archival Paco Rabanne.
And it, ugh, it was so good.
I couldn't sit down, but that was fine.
I will like give that
up any day to wear this.
That headpiece was incredible.
It was very heavy.
I definitely had like
insane divots in my head.
Fun fact, I tend to surf
to most of my premieres.
We get a sprinter van,
and I am standing up in
the middle of the aisles,
and I've now like turned that
into a fun game for myself.
I would like to like
not hold onto anything
and just exclusively surf.
I also don't really work out,
so that's like a really
good thigh exercise,
and it gives me a place to put my anxiety.
So, yeah, I surf.
This is arriving in Cannes.
I am wearing Atlein, and
the hat is Jacquemus.
I'm not usually very well organized.
I'm very good at onset environments.
My brain works in that way.
But, for myself, I'm like
quite a messy individual.
And for this, I just got like,
I don't know, a message from beyond
that was like, "You should change now."
So I wore something
different on the plane,
and then I went into the
bathroom and came out,
and everyone was like,
"Okay, like, let's go."
Very glad I did wear that hat though.
There was a lot of people outside,
and it was kind of like
a good buffer actually.
I'm a sucker for headpieces.
I really love the '20's,
and I love old Hollywood as well.
And I just feel like there's something
about the theatricality of it
that makes me feel more in
my body in these situations.
I feel like if I can
make something into art,
then I have an easier time with it.
So, yeah, headpieces, they help.
Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha, yeah.
This is the Golden Globes.
I am wearing archival Dior.
I felt so good.
I felt so comfortable.
There's something about this
specific silk, it's like heavy.
If I was a fabric,
I would like to believe
that I am this fabric.
I feel like I could wear it forever.
I still get so excited
that I get to watch all of
these movies before they're out.
I feel like that's my
version of like making it,
that and reading books
that aren't published.
I just feel thrilled.
So, yeah, I definitely do a
lot of watching over Christmas.
This necklace has an
absurd amount of carats.
I feel like I'm told about it,
and then I try my best to forget
because then I'm like,
"Take it back, take it
back, take it back."
I didn't realize that
people didn't wear opals.
I just thought they were beautiful.
And I like the fact that they changed
depending on the light.
Also, a friend of mine like sent me,
I'm not on TikTok, TikTok is bad for me,
but a friend of mine sent me a TikTok
that basically talked about
like how I don't give a
fuck about a color wave
or like a color analysis thing.
And looking at this like,
yeah, I would agree with you.
I don't think I give a fuck
about the color analysis.
[Anya laughs]
This was the most fun day.
It was very cold, but we did not care.
I have a really wonderful relationship
with Seb, the photographer.
He knows me and my husband really well,
and so it just felt easy.
I had a really good soundtrack on,
and, yeah, it was a really beautiful day.
My grandmother is a religious reader,
and she lives in Zaragoza,
it's from Barcelona,
and so it's just really,
really, like I feel proud.
[chill jazzy music]
Thank you for watching.
Love to you all.
This was really fun.
And, yeah, I'm excited to
see where this goes next.
[chill jazzy music]